# (old) Introduction

**Welcome from the Dean of School**

Dear student,

Welcome to the School of Physics, Engineering and Computer Science, to the University of Hertfordshire and to the next stage of your studies towards a career in the engineering and technology sector. Engineering and technology transforms lives, it enables the economic growth our society needs and it influences what we do every day in many ways. I encourage you to look around you and observe the multitude of ways in which engineering influences everyone, from the clothes we wear (they were designed, manufactured and transported) to the vehicles we drive, the phones and satellites we use for communication and the infrastructure we need for health, transport, commerce, and improving the lives of many around the world. At Hertfordshire we are proud of our engineering heritage, growing from the aerospace industry and over many decades, educating engineers, managers and technologists with a mix of technical specialist knowledge and skills, as well as a practical understanding of engineering being applied in real-life scenarios. Our Alumni now work in companies large and small in the UK, and around the world, on many exciting engineering projects.

Our academic, professional technical and professional administrative staff are here to support and guide you through your studies, and you will also benefit from some excellent resources across the University and in our engineering laboratories. Our facilities have benefited from substantial and sustained investment which enables us to equip them with modern equipment and instrumentation. I am sure you will see the new electronics test equipment, the variety of simulators, computer workstations and other practical experimental facilities in the coming weeks and months. I hope you enjoy using them. Our dedicated staff have a blend of academic, research and industrial experience and many will bring speakers in from industry to complement your academic lectures. In this way we hope to provide you with a curriculum that is up-to-date and prepares you for future emerging technologies and challenges.

I would encourage you to participate in both extra- and co-curricular activities offered within the School and more widely in the University. Some of you may find an interest in Formula Student, or UAVs, or in aspects of practical electronics and communications, but I would also encourage you to explore the other possibilities that the University has to offer, perhaps language classes, participating in the cross university common reading programme, and in some of the cultural and sports societies. There is much more to University life than finite element analysis, circuit theory and second order differential equations - so please go out and explore! I would also encourage you to become a student member of an appropriate Professional Engineering Institution. We work closely with four institutions, IMechE, RAeS, IET and ICE, and they would welcome your attendance at their local branch meetings, which are invaluable for networking, and possibly helping to find holiday internships, shadowing opportunities and summer jobs.
I wish you every success in your studies and I look forward to meeting and chatting with some of you over the year.

Dr Rodney Day BEng(Hons), MBA, PhD, C.Eng, FIET, FHEA

Dean of School of Physics, Engineering and Computer Science
